Oh, it didn't load the intro.
Play.
We're live.
We are live.
Well, excuse us.
The Yahowah vlog normally begins with an
eighteen-second intro, and we have lots of
time to get our act together.
And this time it was, oh,
by the way, we're live.
This is the south end of a Wookiee
looking north, quite literally.
And we're here to continue our series on
Return to the Garden.
I do have a new
implement here on the show.
This was made by Patty Bowen,
as I understand it,
that arrived late yesterday or early this
morning.
Leah brought it to me.
Yahowah's Chokmah Choter is on one side.
The presentation of the Choter on Yahowah's
voice and Yasha'yah Levin says that the
Choter has the spirit of Chokmah,
which means that he's an intelligent
fellow.
The fact that he is a Chokmah Choter,
since he's the one and only one,
I'm glad that he is Chokmah.
On the other side,
she has been quite clever in presenting
many of the things that are related to
this job.
The moon is a part of the action
because
that Choter is the lesser luminary
reflecting the greater luminary's light,
who would be Dowd.
He's one of the three central players in
God's story.
There are three animals that are depicted
as men that play essential roles in the
fulfillment of the Mow‘edym Miqra'ey,
and one of those is the bull who
is sacrificed on Taruw'ah.
He is also the ‘Ayom Parah.
And as we turn here,
we have the microphone of the Yahowah blog
and also the books of Yada Yahowah.
So I thank you for my special glass
for this program.
It is always already Wookiee approved.
Now, by recap,
so that you have an idea where we
are.
About a month or two ago,
I was given reason to return to the
story of ‘Eden and what transpired there.
And when we did,
we made a number of profoundly important
discoveries, unheralded discoveries,
things that no one had ever considered
previously.
One of those is that ‘Eden is a
microcosm of planet Earth.
And that God is going to return the
entire earth to the conditions experienced
in ‘Eden and will do so on Taruw'ah
less than eight years from now.
This will be the twenty-third and
twenty-fourth of September of
twenty-thirty-three in year six thousand
Yah.
And when He does,
He will do the same as was existent
in ‘Eden,
wiping out all traces of religion and
politics and militarism and anti-Semitism
and conspiracy.
And then a select few will be allowed
back into the garden.
And those will be determined by the
sacrifice of this bull here that we see
on the back of the children's cup.
Now,
not only did we recognize these things,
which are exceedingly profound,
we also learned that it was God, Yahowah,
who caused the fall of man,
not something man did.
It was actually man's crimes of omission
more than commission.
So this initial sin that must be expunged
has nothing to do with the story.
The fact of the matter is that
Yahowah was bored with ‘Adam.
‘Adam didn't pass muster.
He was not interesting.
He did not listen.
He did not engage and make a contribution,
and Yahowah wanted him to work with Him.
He did not respond appropriately,
and he proved himself unreliable.
He showed no signs of growth and no
indication that if he stumbled,
he could recover,
proving himself reliable and worthy.
And therefore,
there was no chance that ‘Adam could ever
reach the point that God could take him
off of this planet and share the universe
that He had created with him,
which is really the intent.
And so there would be a rebooting.
There'd be a chance,
a six-thousand-year chance for us to
get our act together.
We discovered the true meaning of this story
in the Garden of ‘Eden,
and for us to listen to Yahowah finally,
for us to engage doing what He wants
accomplished,
for us to show that man can stumble
and fall and get back up and prove
himself worthy,
and that man can be observant because God
wants to show off the universe,
and there's no purpose in doing that
unless a person He is taking along for
the ride is also observant
and explore.
So this was a fairly profound series of
discoveries because it shapes what we must
achieve to be among those that God is
going to
afford this marvelous opportunity.
Otherwise,
no one's getting off this rock alive.
The earth is fine-tuned to protect and to
shelter life, just as was the garden,
and they are exactly the same.
The other thing that is, of course,
interesting is that the basis of Gan,
garden, and the basis of Sukah, shelters,
is the same.
Their actionable roots are identical.
They speak of a sheltered and protected
garden that is conducive to life.
And therefore,
we're going to see the fulfillment of
Sukah.
This return to the Garden take place on
This will be the seventh of October,
a Shabbat, of course,
in year six thousand Yah,
twenty-thirty-three, fifteen days after,
fifteen days after, I should say,
the restoration of the conditions of ‘Eden
across the entire planet.
So these are all very profound insights,
but there were even more, and that we
came to recognize that the Tree of Lives
represents Dowd.
He is the same individual that Yahowah
calls the greater luminary in the
preceding chapter of Bare'shiyth | Genesis
when He is talking about the fourth day
of creation.
Dowd became the Tree of Lives because he
was the one who in his second of
three lives fulfilled Pesach,
opening the doorway to life.
Heretofore,
that has never been a conclusion deduced
or shared by anyone.
We also came to the conclusion that the
Tree of Knowledge is this series of books
called Yada Yahowah.
There's thirty-five books in this series
of Yada Yahowah.
Yada means to know Yahowah,
and they are all free in the library
at yadayah.com.
Not only that,
we became aware that Yahowah's presentation
of what is probably the most important
prophecy for our time, that of the Choter,
spoken of in Yahowah's voice in the
eleventh chapter of Yasha'yah.
It is the most
comprehensive prophecy in terms of the
arrival of an individual that you will
find anywhere. It's also repeated in the
fourteenth mishal or proverb written by
King Dowd, and it is about a Choter
who is a stem who has roots that
are deeply entrenched, who is a nazir which
is an observant branch, who is in fact
the ‘ets,
the tree providing the comprehensive
counsel on da'ath | knowledge.
So the Choter is in fact the Tree
of Knowledge.
You're listening to him now.
Lots of insights for a return to the
garden,
none of which were previously heralded,
all of which are profoundly important.
So now as we have moved through this
story,
one of the things that we just heard
God say is that
‘Adam and Chawah,
prior to embarking on eating the fruit of
the Tree of Knowledge,
and I should also tell you that the
Tree of Knowledge is actually the most
important character in this story.
It is representing a man.
Most of God's symbols represent men.
And the Tree of Lives,
while massively more important than the
Tree of Knowledge, is mentioned,
it's just mentioned in passing,
and all the focus remains then on the
Tree of Knowledge.
And that before ‘Adam and Chawah imbibed and
bit into the Tree of Knowledge,
they didn't just take a bite,
they continued to devour everything they
could.
They were naked,
wearing nothing but a smile,
and they were comfortable in God's
presence that way.
It was only until such time as they
had done precisely what God asked them not
to do
that they were uncomfortable being naked
and exposed in His sight.
Now,
this is important because religions and
the religious are all fixated on what one
wears and of hiding,
particularly the female form when God's
got no such issues.
And the fact is,
you probably are not ready
to be invited back into the garden if
you're fixated on religious dress or on
modesty,
because you have to be ready to be
fully exposed to Yahowah,
fully exposed to God before you'll be
comfortable in His presence in the garden.
The other thing we learned is that the
parting shot of what transpired in the
garden prior to Yahowah's rebuke and His
questioning of
‘Adam and Chawah,
was that God said that it's important for
a man to walk away from his mother
and father and to be with his woman.
The reason this is important is that it
is a departure where, as I've said,
the first to recognize that man did not
cause the fall of man, nor did woman.
It was God that caused it.
And He did so because He wanted us
to have the opportunity to demonstrate
that we could be interesting companions.
And as He does that,
He is leaving man to his own devices.
And this is important for us to understand
that we are now in a position where
we have to demonstrate our worth.
And to do that,
you have to walk away from the family
of man.
This is the very thing that God spoke
to ‘Abraham about
as the prerequisite for the Covenant.
You have to walk away from Babel,
which is the integration of religion and
politics into one's life.
And you have to leave your father's house,
which is very much like the statement that
God just shared here in the second chapter
of Bare'shiyth in the Towrah.
So we're being set up for what would
be required to be part of the Covenant.
And central to that today
requires listening to the voice of Yahowah.
So here's what we read next.
Then with ongoing implications over time,
they actually heard, wa shama',
they masculine plural as in mankind
would hear with the benefits of listening
continuously playing out.
This is the qowl | imperfect third person
masculine plural,
that which pertains to the qowl,
the voice of Yahowah ‘Elohiym as He
independently and on His own initiative,
unaffected by any other influence was
traveling about pursuant to ha Gan,
the enclosed and sheltered garden,
this covered and protective enclosure for
life concerning the Ruwach | Spirit of the
day.
Now,
before we continue this particular
statement,
and this is the first part of Bare'shiyth
3:8,
let's analyze some of God's choices of
nomenclature.
First, shama'.
This is the great catastrophe of religion,
and it plays out more aggressively and
negatively
in Judaism, well, Judaism,
Christianity and Islam all have this
problem.
God never once asked us to speak to
Him.
Never once asked us to pray.
He doesn't want us to bow down before
Him.
He doesn't want us to worship Him,
but He most certainly never once asked us
to pray.
But He quite often asks us to shama',
to listen.
Now, Jews screw this up.
When Yahowah in Debarim,
the fourth chapter, He's telling Jews,
He says, shama', listen, Yahowah,
your God is one.
And Jews, rather than saying, well, okay,
Yahowah's God's name,
and there's just one of Him,
and we need to listen to Him,
they talk over Him.
They turn the Shema into a prayer and
talk over God rather than listening to
Him,
and then they even replace Yahowah's name
with Adonai, the Lord.
Shame.
Paul, in creating Christianity, said,
pray without ceasing,
which means don't listen to Yahowah.
And of course,
Islam is all fixated on multiple prayers
every day,
and none of them are really a prayer.
They're a confession of submission to
Allah,
where you bow down in humility and put
your nose in the dirt.
It is a shameful thing,
but that's what Allah wants because Allah
is Satan.
So with ongoing implications over time,
they actually heard.
Now they were listening.
But the they is masculine plural,
so it is actually speaking of another
time.
What pertains to the qowl | voice.
The qowl | voice of Yahowah is going to
come up many times throughout the Towrah
and prophets.
And in particular,
the qowl | voice of Yahowah is presented as
a latter day witness that God has
empowered to clear the obstacles away,
to raise a thoroughfare from our world,
the material world to the spiritual world
of the heavens where Yahowah resides.
And so it is this qowl of Yahowah
that calls out in this wilderness of death
and deceit to clear away the religious
obstacles that have cluttered the way
to Yahowah,
which is through His Mow'ed Miqra'ey.
And so the qowl | voice of Yahowah is
an essential prophetic figure discussed
throughout the prophets,
and particularly in the book of Yasha'yah.
He is of Yahowah.
Yahowah is God's one and only name.
If you do not know Yahowah's name,
you do not know God.
God does not know you.
It is very easy to pronounce.
The introduction of Yahowah's name was to
Mosheh, and at the time,
Yahowah specifically said that His name was
based upon the Hebrew verb hayah.
Hayah means to be.
I was, I am, I will be.
I exist.
And
hayah tells us how to pronounce the y,
the yowd,
and the two hes in Yahowah's name.
It's hayah.
And then to understand the pronunciation
of the wah, which is the w,
which is another vowel.
Hebrew has five vowels and seventeen
consonants.
All you have to do is look at
the book that instructs us about the
proper pronunciation of Yahowah's name.
It's in the Towrah.
The o in Towrah comes from the Hebrew
wah.
Not difficult.
So this is the voice of Yahowah ‘Elohiym,
as He independently and on His own
initiative,
unaffected by any other influences,
was traveling about.
The verb is halak,
but halak was represented in the hithpa'el,
participle, masculine, singular, absolute.
Now,
what that means in the hithpa'el stem
is that God was now independent of ‘Adam
and Chawah.
He was there on His own initiative,
not theirs.
He was not affected any longer by what
they were doing.
They were separate.
God was going to lecture them and He
was going to leave them.
Pursuant to ha Gan,
this enclosed and sheltered garden.
This would be Yahowah's last visit to the
garden.
It was located where Lake Van is now
in eastern Turkey.
I think it's buried underneath the waters
of Lake Van.
It doesn't really matter in the fact that
God's going to transform the entire earth
to the conditions of ‘Eden.
But I think when He does,
the original garden will probably be
available to us to explore.
I think it'd be fun for God to
do that.
He's that kind of guy.
So I would expect that we will have
tours of the original garden should we
wish to go.
It'd be fun to do.
And the garden is a covered and protective
enclosure for life.
The earth, our planet,
is specifically tuned for the same
purpose.
We on this earth have the ideal
environment for life.
In fact,
as we realize all of the fine-tuning that
was necessary for life to exist on this
planet,
it is absolutely extraordinary.
I've seen programs presented by scientists
and physicists and the like,
and they talk about the numbers,
and you get to something in the range
of ten to the hundredth power.
I mean,
numbers that are so astronomical they
can't even be imagined in the human brain
for there to be another planet anywhere
in our universe that is conducive to life.
It's far more than just having the right
size and type of star of which our
sun is perfect.
It's much more than being just the right
distance from that star of which the earth
was ten percent closer or fifteen percent
farther away, life would be impossible.
It's more than just being in an orbit
around that star at the right distance
because the orbit has to be round,
circular,
as opposed to elliptical or it wouldn't
work.
It has to be that the planet is
a rocky planet, not too great a size,
not too small a size,
and it has to have and maintain a
molten core to have a magnetic field that
protects the planet from radiation.
Otherwise, it's not possible.
It has to have water
vapor in the air which means the density
of the planet has to be enough to
gravitationally hold it there but without
the water vapor in the air even with
the magnetic field life would not be
possible because of the
cosmic microwave bombardment of the
planet.
It has to have a moon that is
abnormally large for the size of the
planet.
Our moon was actually created out of the
earth.
A planet about the size of Mars hit
the earth and the collision between the
two created the earth and the moon,
a very unique situation.
In fact,
we don't see another combination of planet
our size and moon our size,
not only anywhere in our solar system,
but anywhere in our galaxy.
And it also has to have a gaseous
giant placed outside of its orbit that is
the distance that we find Jupiter and the
size we find Jupiter.
Otherwise,
there's no vacuum cleaner out there to get
rid of all of the harmful meteors and
asteroids and comets that would otherwise
destroy any chance of life on the planet.
And it just goes on and on.
It has to be in a certain range within
an arm of a galaxy where it's about
three-quarters of the way out from the
center of a galaxy as we are from
our sun. Any further out and you don't
get stars like the sun. You get red
dwarfs which won't support life and you
don't get any of the
large quasars and neutron stars and that
sort of thing that can explode and create
the heavy elements.
We're carbon-based creatures.
So they don't exist if you go further
out.
And if you go further in,
then the environment is just too caustic.
When a quasar and the like stars explode,
they would take all life away on the
planet.
So it gets too caustic as you move
further in.
And it can't even happen on a galaxy
unless that galaxy is separated
significantly from other galaxies as
ours is and that planet has to have
tectonic plates or life is impossible. It
has to have tides like we do or
life is impossible. It has to have the
proper angle on its axis and proper
spin rate. Between day and night can't be
tidally locked as so many planets are and
it just goes on and on. It has
to have this enormous wealth of water
which we uniquely do.
As I say,
it's obvious that the earth was finely
tuned for life.
Even with all of that tuning for life,
the odds of spontaneous generation as
opposed to intelligent design,
particularly with the three-dimensional
language of DNA,
places the possibility of life emerging
from matter at a far greater number.
I think it's ten to the fifty-fourth power
is the best scientific explanation now
that it's far less possible than if you
would imagine a tornado that was whirling
over a junkyard,
magically creating a 747
that was flyable.
You know, that's not possible.
And you should know that life from
nonliving material,
particularly life form that can have a
ready supply of food,
have a means to process that food for
energy and have a means to replicate
itself.
It's not possible.
And DNA is a language.
Languages don't spontaneously generate.
So there we are.
Life was conceived here and we are a
protective enclosure that is conducive to
life.
And you might as well admit this because
man with a physical body
isn't going anywhere. Yeah, we can go to
the moon but a big deal. It's a
three-day cruise in a slow
rocket. And even there
we can stay there four or five days
maybe pushing it at the extent but
the issues there is you're still exposed
to the cosmic radiation.
You get fourteen days of utter darkness
where there's no source of power.
The regolith,
which is that super abrasive dust that
exists on the moon,
has an electrostatic property.
It destroys everything.
It cuts right through spacesuits.
It destroys instrumentation.
You could be there for a very short
period of time.
Everything that you're using would be
absolutely destroyed.
You can't land one spacecraft near the
others because it would kick up this
regolith such that it would be unbelievably
destructive.
You'd have to ultimately build yourself a
hut.
No windows, an exceedingly thick
earthen kind of door going back into the
Stone Age if you will to be able
to survive the radiation. And if you're
going to build something like that with an
earthen hut out of the regolith why
not just take a hole in the ground
on earth then the view would be the
same right. And then you've got the
issues of the human body can't
continue to function in zero or
lower gravity than what we experience on
earth because everything falls apart.
Our hearts weaken, our muscles weaken,
our bones weaken,
everything about us falls apart.
So it just can't be done.
So man is most certainly not going to
Mars to live.
He might go to Mars as a vanity
project to die, but that would be it.
So this is it where we are and
it is equivalent to ‘Eden and God is
offering, committed to returning the
earth to the Garden of ‘Eden and those
that will be there will be there because
they have listened to what we're talking
about now and they've availed themselves
of what we're talking about now. Without
this message and it being finally heeded
and resonating among God's people it
wouldn't happen.
Now,
this goes on to say that it's not
just pursuant to the enclosed and
sheltered garden,
but it's concerning the Ruwach | Spirit of
the day.
Now,
this is the first mention of the Ruwach
in the garden.
And here it is after humankind has
failed and it's going to be booted
out.
The Ruwach is mentioned in the creation
account earlier and it's the Ruwach that
Yahowah dispatches to expand the universe
and to
regulate, if you will,
to make certain that that light,
that He conceived is managed in an
appropriate way.
Matter of fact,
it's just really an interesting thing to
note that God said, let there be light.
And I don't think people have a full
appreciation what that means because light
is the very stuff that is later turned
into matter.
Energy and matter are the same things.
They're just different amounts of the same
thing.
That's what E equals mc squared represents
that matter is a form of organized light
and that it is
the same amount of light and matter.
You have to multiply matter by the square
of the speed of light to equal energy.
But here you go,
the correlation between the two matter and
energy is the square of the speed of
light because the speed of light,
light speed is the governing factor of the
universe.
It is the thing that regulates the
It's not just that it is the universal
speed limit, and it is.
Nothing can or will ever travel faster
than light.
If something, a physical entity,
were to travel faster than the speed of
light, it would destroy the universe.
It would have to become so large in
terms of its inertia that it would consume
the entire universe just to propel it.
And it would exist in multiple places at
one time to defy the laws of physics.
But the worst part of the whole thing,
if you move faster than the speed of
light,
you would unravel the very fabric of
space-time such that consequence would
precede cause.
And so cause and effect,
the effect would precede cause if we were to travel faster than
the speed of light.
And it just is absolutely impossible to
tear the human body apart if you even
approach that speed and your spacecraft
hit just a random hydrogen atom,
it'd be like a nuclear bomb going off.
Your body, as it approaches the speed,
all matter stretches so that your entire
body would explode.
It is just every way you look at
it.
It is an impossibility just to propel
something anywhere close to that would
take all of the energy in the universe
to even approach it happening.
And even then,
based upon that stretching of the fabric
of time,
it would destroy the object being
accelerated to that point.
And even at the speed of light,
there's no part of our universe that we
can visit.
We can't even approximate it.
The fastest we've ever created a
spacecraft is one without a human so that
we could send it very close to the
sun and slingshot around the sun,
which would kill it if it had a
human occupant.
And that one is traveling at 0.1 percent of the speed of light.
0.1 percent. That's the closest
we've ever gone and we can't even
approximate that at this point and at this
point that would take
us many thousands of years to even get
to the first star and there is no
way to replicate humanity in space and
our bodies wouldn't survive the
low gravity environment. It's just it's
a factual impossibility.
We'll never get beyond this planet to
live.
As a vanity project,
we could possibly get to Mars,
but no one's going to live there.
We can return to the moon,
This is the only place that we can
live,
and it is therefore designated as
God's view of this will be our sheltered
garden.
It's also interesting that not only is
light the substance of matter,
not only is light the universal
timekeeper,
not only is light the means to regulate
the universe,
its defense mechanism really is light.
It must make certain that no particle ever
exceeds the speed of light,
or it'd be the unraveling of the undoing
of the universe.
And it's the ultimate timekeeper as well.
But also information cannot pass from one
place to another any faster than the speed
of light, even a quantum computer.
It's still limited to the speed of light.
So all of these things are absolutely
fascinating.
My favorite aspect of all of this,
as we'll get back to the Spirit of
the day,
is that
what I've long stated is that when we
get rid of our physical bodies,
which means that you've got to get away
from religion because Judaism,
Christianity,
and Islam all believe in the resurrection
of the body, that's counterproductive.
If you have a body,
you can't live on this planet and you're
still restricted,
you can't go to the next dimension.
It is only when you don't have a
body and your soul is encased in light
and energy that you have the opportunity
to be enriched and empowered and enabled.
And so when that happens, then we,
in fact,
can do what God is looking for man
and woman to do,
which is to be trustworthy enough that He
can take us off of this planet.
But here's what's the beauty of it.
On a photon of light,
let's say we had a photon of light
that left a star that is fifty
billion light years away.
It did not take that photon fifty billion
years to reach our eyes.
Not from its perspective.
From ours, perhaps, but not from its.
You see,
from the moment that photon of light
left that star to the time that it
reaches its ultimate destination,
zero time passes.
So as light,
we can move from one place to another
in zero time.
So we can explore the entire universe
under that basis because we can get to
wherever we want to go in zero time.
And so time takes on an entirely different
dimension when you are light energy than
it does now.
It's just such a fascinating study.
And all of this is available to us
through Yahowah's discussion here in Bare'shiyth in the Towrah.
Now, as for the Spirit of the day,
the Spirit of this day is that everything
we have just considered about the garden
is prophetic.
It's prophetic of where we are,
who we are,
and what you're being invited to
experience as the earth is returned to the
garden.
You see,
I shared with you that the Tree of
Knowledge in the garden is the Choter.
The Choter that is presented in the
eleventh chapter of Yasha'yah and in the
fourteenth proverb of Dowd.
This unique individual is the most Ruwach
of all people who have ever lived.
The Choter is given the seven Spirits of
Yahowah.
And so the Spirit of the day is
the Tree of Knowledge who is the central
figure in this story because it is the
Tree of Knowledge that equips people to
recognize the toxicity of religion
so that they leave religion,
and then the truth about Yahowah,
so that they understand what Yahowah is
offering and what He is expecting in
return, and in particular,
the Tree of Knowledge leads people back to
the Tree of Lives, representing Dowd,
who fulfilled Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym,
in his second of three lives in
thirty-three CE,
which was year four thousand Yah,
exactly as God explained.
To be able to accomplish this at this
late date and to reveal all of these
insights that mankind has never considered
before.
Everything I'm sharing with you now,
no one has ever processed previously.
No one.
I mean,
how does one guy come up with ten
thousand unique insights that no one has
ever perceived before and can show you how
to derive them through the very words of
God?
And all of the people who have come
before him haven't come up with any of
them.
It's because this individual was uniquely
given the seven Spirits of Yahowah.
The first of those is the very Spirit
of Yahowah.
It's called the Ruwach of Yahowah.
And what that enables this person to do
is to be the qowl,
the voice of Yahowah,
to represent Yahowah at this time.
And you might say, well,
why doesn't God just speak for Himself?
Because that isn't the way He operates and
isn't the way that man has chosen.
Man was given freewill.
God appeared directly before the children
of Yisra'el at the base of Mount Choreb,
gave them three days to get their act
together,
to prepare. Mosheh introducing them to the
fact it was going to happen.
They had witnessed Yahowah's flame,
His light on the top of Mount Choreb.
They had seen Mosheh come down on occasion,
once with the tablets of stone,
twice with the tablets of stone,
broke the first set.
And
they saw him radiant.
His face was glowing.
They saw the man's confidence.
And so he said, you know, God said,
I'm going to come down.
I'm going to demonstrate tangibly that I
am God and I am speaking to you.
So they trust what you have to say.
And this is very consistent all the way
through the Towrah.
When God chooses someone to speak through,
He tells you,
I have chosen this guy to speak through.
There's no question about it.
The Towrah is the most
obvious of these people for the last three
thousand years. The person that God says
the most about is Dowd. He is actually
the person that is identified in the
eighteenth chapter of Debarim
known to other people by its Greek
title Deuteronomy.
But second unto Dowd,
the most prophetic ink is describing this
Choter, this voice of God,
the herald of Dowd, the lesser luminary,
the Tree of Knowledge that points people
back and equips them to capitalize on the
Tree of Lives.
And this individual has the very Ruwach of
Yahowah.
That has happened very, very infrequently.
In fact,
I don't think there's another place where
it actually says the Spirit of Yahowah.
We know the Ruwach came upon Mosheh,
it came upon Dowd,
and it came upon a few others here
and there along the way.
But it's never expressed as the Spirit of
Yahowah.
That's profound.
And now I was gonna say,
so when Yahowah came to speak directly to
the children of Yisra'el,
He was represented by fire,
because God won't fit into a man.
This idea that God can be a man
like as in Jesus Christ is utterly stupid.
God won't fit on our planet,
much less in our solar system,
much less in our galaxy.
And even in this entire universe,
He has to be larger than the universe
He created to have created it.
So God is a dimension beyond our six
dimensional universe.
So for God to project Himself into our
presence,
He has to do it in some manner.
And the way that He did it there
is He created a fire.
Fire represents light and energy,
and therefore is a really ideal metaphor
for Him to convey His existence to us.
So He appeared as a fiery light in
their presence,
and He spoke in His voice to them,
and He didn't get
a full sentence into it before the children
of Yisra'el says, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no.
You go away, man.
We're going to die.
They couldn't handle being exposed to God.
They didn't want to hear directly from
Him.
They told Him to go away,
to shut up.
They never wanted to hear from Him or
see Him again.
Now, God didn't get angry at this.
Surprise, surprise, God said,
I'm with you on this one.
I happen to agree that that makes absolute
and perfect sense.
You will never see or hear from Me
again.
From that point on,
God's revelation to man was through men.
He would speak through the likes of Mosheh,
Yasha'yah, Hoshea, Zakaryah,
particularly through Dowd, through Shemuw'el.
And finally, in the end,
through His children.
So that is what God has chosen.
That's what man has chosen.
That is the way it has always been.
It's the way it will always be.
When Dowd returns as King of the universe
on Kipurym, the second of October,
6:22 p.m.
in Jerusalem, as the sun sets on
the second of October twenty thirty-three
in year six thousand Yah. When He returns
with Yahowah God said He's going to be
‘Elyown the very influence of God and
His presence and in our presence.
So God is going to continue throughout
eternity to work through individuals of
His choosing.
Dowd is the most important of them.
This fellow known as the Choter,
this Tree of Knowledge is high up there
on that list, but way below Dowd.
So the Spirit of the day is the
fact that the Tree of Knowledge,
the Choter,
which is synonymous with the Tree of
Knowledge,
God made that emphatically clear in the
eleventh chapter of Yasha'yah,
that the two of them, similarly named,
filled with the Spirit,
that is the Spirit of the day.
The Choter,
in addition to the Spirit of Yahowah,
has the Ruwach of the Spirit of Chokmah.
That's why it says there, the Choter,
Chokmah Choter.
He has the Spirit,
and that means intelligence, by the way.
It's often translated wisdom,
but I think intelligence is probably a
more accurate rendering of Chokmah.
It's how Dowd introduces the fourteenth
proverb talking about,
begins with talking about the Choter's
wife and said, she is really smart too,
but goes through and some six or seven
times talks about from his perspective and
therefore God's perspective,
the Choter is uncommonly intelligent.
That's why he's able to write these kinds
of books to lay out, for example,
the next eight years on this planet and
tell you exactly what's going to
happen, where, when, and why,
so that you're prepared for it,
which no one previously has been able to
do.
I mean,
he identified the fellow that Christians
have been searching for that is the
Antichrist.
He has told you the exact day that
God is gonna return.
He's told you the exact day the witnesses
are going to be there.
When the Towrah-less one is actually going
to make his diabolical decree about him
being a god, when he's going to change
the schedule of the Mow'ed Miqra'ey,
all of that is laid out.
The first day of the Time of Ya'aqob's
troubles,
when Yisra'el is gonna be forced to
capitulate its heart and soul to create a
fake Palestinian state to make the nation
more vulnerable, when Hamas flood
2.0 is going to happen.
All of that,
I've laid out for you in this book.
The day the two witnesses arrive,
the names of the two witnesses,
it's all there.
And it's all there because
the Choter has been given the Ruwach of
Chokmah,
but he's also been given the Ruwach of
Biynah,
which happens to be my favorite of all
Hebrew words.
Biynah means that you can make connections
between things.
It's the ability to comprehend so that you
look at,
you develop knowledge by processing
information intelligently and developing a
foundation of knowledge.
And then finding the connections,
the relationships between things so that
you can go from knowing to understanding.
Knowing is very powerful.
Understanding is infinitely more valuable
and empowering and enlightening and
enabling than simply knowing.
And he is given this Spirit of
understanding.
Then this is not the end of the
list.
I mean, that's already three,
the Spirit of Yahowah,
the Spirit of intelligence,
the Spirit of understanding.
The fourth Spirit is the Spirit of this
day, ‘etsah.
Tree is ‘ets.
The Tree of Knowledge is the ‘ets da'ath.
‘Etsah expands the concept of ‘ets | tree such
that this tree, ‘etsah,
is providing comprehensive counsel and
advice regarding the entire story that God
has portrayed
so that you know it from beginning to
end,
and all of the important dates along the
way, and everything that's important,
and that has never occurred prior to this
series of books,
of which there are thirty-five, free,
again, at yadayah.com,
and until the Yahowah blog.
So this is the ‘etsah,
the full expression of that tree.
Then we reach the fifth of those
Ruwach that is afforded to this Choter.
And it is the same Ruwach that made
Dowd so extraordinary.
It's the Ruwach of Gebuwrah.
Gebuwrah is confidence, conviction,
capability.
This Choter is gonna be so uniquely
confident and capable
that he's going to drive a whole lot
of people crazy because they're insecure
and a super confident individual just
absolutely drives the insecure people up a
wall.
But that's what's needed now.
The person that's speaking as the voice of
God,
as this Choter needs to have confidence,
needs to be bold and needs to be
resilient.
And so he's given the Spirit of Gebuwrah.
And then, of course,
the sixth of the seven Spirits of Yahowah
fully identifies the Choter with the ‘ets
da'ath, the Tree of Knowledge,
because it is the Spirit of da'ath,
and that is the Spirit of this day.
And all that leads to the seventh of
the seven Spirits of Yahowah,
which is the Spirit of yara',
which is to develop a respect and
admiration for Yahowah.
That is the Spirit of this day.
Of course, in your religious publications,
they'll say it is the cool of the
day.
Ruwach does not mean cool.
In Spirit therefore the man whom we call
‘Adam it just wa ha ‘adam ‘Adam means
red earth and man
as ‘Adamah would be the bloody red man
of the earth with the ah ending expanding
our understanding of the word because this
is prophetic and speaking of the ‘Adamah
Parah who is the productive bull that is
a bull up here,
the productive bull who is a bloody red
man of the earth because he is the
man from ‘Edom who is sacrificed to save
many.
So therefore, ‘Adam, this man,
and his woman withdrew as he moved away
by himself.
So he moved away would mean that the
man moved away from everybody,
from Yahowah and from Chawah.
Chawah is actually the name of the
first woman conceived to help man.
It's another insight.
Man was created in God's image.
When God gave a man a neshamah,
which is a conscience,
the man would have had all the normal
features of a human outside the garden.
He would have had a soul like every
human.
Human outside of the garden,
but he was created in God's image with
a neshamah,
which enabled him to process information
rationally, cogently.
It made man intelligent,
gave him the capacity to be intelligent
anyway, and to have a conscience,
to be able to discern between right and
wrong, good and bad,
productive and counterproductive,
to be judgmental, to be discerning,
discriminating.
It's all things that artificial
intelligence is incapable of replicating.
And the neshamah is better than a bunch
of processors and circuits,
I can promise you that.
And so he that has the man withdrawing,
I was gonna say that not only was
man created in God's image,
woman was not created in God's image,
woman was created in man's image,
according to the text of our Creator.
Also,
man was created to work with God,
to make a contribution to the
relationship, to listen to God,
to be observant of things around him and
therefore contemplative based upon what he
had seen.
Woman was created to help the man.
‘Ezer is the word, it means to help.
She was specifically created to support
man,
while man was created to engage with God
in the ways that I have just articulated.
The fact is that
put together,
there was synergy and this would be an
ideal relationship for man,
for woman and for God,
but we very quickly destroyed what God was
trying to create.
Anyway, so it says the man withdrew,
he moved away by himself,
no longer assisted,
influenced or helped by anyone,
which means Chawah was not helping him,
which was her design purpose.
It says,
he decided to retreat and leave by
himself,
which means that he was not being acted
upon by any other influence.
He was on his own.
Imperfect means unfolding implications
over time.
Third person, masculine,
which means it was he that was moving
away and withdrawing.
From the presence of Yahowah ‘Elohiym.
In the midst of ha Gan,
the sheltered garden's ‘ets | tree.
Now many would change ‘ets to the plural
form and say in the midst of the
garden's trees, but it's singular.
It's masculine singular as a matter of
fact.
‘Adam just didn't get lost among the trees.
He went back to the Tree of Knowledge,
to the central figure and central
character throughout this story,
which is the Tree of Knowledge,
the ‘ets da'ath.
And tree here is just such an interesting
word also
because it's not only a productive,
upright life with firmly embedded roots
and branches,
which reach up to absorb the light,
presented exactly like the Choter is presented in
the eleventh chapter of Yasha'yah | Isaiah.
But when we look at the ‘etsah version
of ‘ets,
it means to provide counsel and advice
through diligence and effort on the
entirety of the plan for the purpose of
developing a backbone while overcoming
challenges to advocate the proper
response.
And this is important because the very
thing that ‘Adam didn't do is show some
character,
overcoming the challenge of being offered
the fruit and saying, no,
God said we shouldn't eat it.
Or even if he had taken a bite
to accommodate the woman, said, you know,
God says we shouldn't continually do this.
Let's just set it down and it'll be
okay.
And it would have been, but he didn't.
So that is important.
And related to the Spirit of the day,
we find ‘ets,
which is the basis of ‘etsah,
which is the counsel on the entire story
that is provided by the Ruwach to the
Choter.
So clearly there was a lot to unpack
in that last statement that is important
to our understanding and to see why
everyone is behaving as God is depicting
them in this story.
And after we had the characters described
and we've watched them interact and
they've been introduced along with their
attributes,
we find that God's solution to being
unimpressed by the man
is being laid out here.
His qowl | voice would convey His solution.
The descriptive title, of course,
belongs to the ‘Adamah,
the man of the earth.
God has twice spoken of Yada in this
narrative, and Yada is the one who knows.
That is why it is Yada Yahowah.
And he is serving as the ‘ets da'ath,
this Tree of Knowledge,
as the bashar | herald of Dowd,
the Tree of Lives.
Now,
while it wasn't the man and woman who
were listening,
something we can deduce by realizing that
shama' was presented in the masculine
plural.
Therefore,
it's addressing men and women of another
millennium.
Mankind in another time, our time.
Nevertheless,
by having devoured some of its fruit,
‘Adam and Chawah should now have been at
least somewhat familiar with him such that
they recognized him.
His qowl | voice would have shattered their
illusions, however,
just as he would the delusions later in
life of the religious, the political,
the conspiratorial.
I've written thirteen volumes excoriating religion.
Here is one of five that destroys the
religion of Islam.
religion of Christianity.
And I've written three that destroy the
religion of Judaism.
So he is a voice to proclaim what
is wrong, injurious.
Doing something no one has previously done
before.
So this is the qowl of Yahowah,
exclaimed through the prophet Yasha'yah,
who would call out in the wilderness,
prepare the way for man's return to God
and God's return to man,
clearing the obstacles that had been
strewn in the path,
most of which are religious or political
or social.
Militant or conspiratorial or
anti-Semitic.
Additionally, based upon the Towrah,
we know that God is committed to speaking
through men and not directly to men.
Understand the difference?
Through men, not directly to men.
He tried the direct to men,
it didn't work real well.
We rejected that.
And so ever since that time,
it's been through men.
Now,
as for the other interpretation that they
heard the sound of the Lord God walking,
may I remind you that even though the
verb is halak and can be translated as
walking,
that Yahowah expressly stated that He
appeared ‘al, which is above the man,
not next to him or beside him.
Qowl is properly defined as voice four
times more often than it is rendered
sound.
And since Yahowah is a seven-dimensional
being,
should He want to interact with man using
legs and feet and conveying the sound of
footsteps over broken branches,
the most He could have done would be
to project His nepesh | soul into a
physical form for the occasion.
But had that been the case here,
He would have depicted His presence using
the term He uses elsewhere, ‘iysh.
Individual something we have not seen
anywhere in this narrative. Instead we are
told that this day pertained to the Ruwach
| Spirit of Yahowah something men have
corrupted to cool of the day and this
is to say that it is correct to
conclude that God was speaking to and
observing this man as if he were a
pet in a cage swimming around akin to
a goldfish bowl.
Now affirming this,
while halak can be rendered walking,
it is correctly translated coming and
going,
moving about and traveling three times
more often than it is presented as
walking.
Therefore,
Yahowah is continuing to use this narrative
to advance His solution and His lack of
interest in the uneducated, inexperienced,
unproductive, undisciplined, unmotivated,
irresponsible, and self-entitled man.
Yah's tree would have a voice.
Yada Yahowah would become the Yahowah Vlog.
Well, should you disagree,
that's your prerogative.
But be aware over the past three thousand
years,
no one has known Yahowah better or spoken
more accurately of Him or for Him.
Even here,
I'm the first to identify Dowd as the
Tree of Lives,
which was predicated upon being the first
to prove that Dowd fulfilled Pesach and
is second of three lives,
opening the door to life.
And by properly reflecting the sun's
brilliance,
I became the Tree of Knowledge,
the lesser luminary,
the first to lead the world back to
the ‘Ets Chayim through the ‘Ets Da'ath.
This is something Yasha'yah understood,
but even the prophet Zakaryah could not
grasp this as he pondered the implications
of the two trees flanking the menorah.
The one next to the lights representing
the first three Miqra'ey on one side,
and the other rooted alongside the fall
Miqra'ey.
Dowd on the spring Miqra'ey, Yada,
aligned with the fall.
As a result,
I'm the first to demonstrate that the
Choter Yahowah foretold through Yasha'yah
is the ‘ets ha da'ath.
As a result of the Ruwach | Spirit,
now that in and of itself is among
the greatest discoveries of our age,
of any age,
because it destroys all messianic
connections, not only with the Towrah,
but with the garden,
with the Tree of Lives, with the Towrah,
with the prophets.
There's no room for a mythical Jesus in
the midst of these truths that are so
profound about Dowd and the role that
the lesser luminary plays in reflecting
the greater luminary's light,
where the Tree of Knowledge leads us back
to the Tree of Lives.
But that's just low hanging fruit,
because I'm the first to determine that it
was Yahowah who caused the fall of man.
Now climbing higher in the tree,
I shared how God arranged man's ouster
from the garden such that with woman after
billions of iterations,
this would eventually evolve towards the
desired result.
Climbing to the top of the tree,
I explained that our time out of and
then back to the garden has transpired for
a singular purpose,
played out over six thousand years.
This is an opportunity for some men and
women to become sufficiently interesting
and reliable,
by being observant and listening to God,
and then engaging and contributing
something to the relationship,
having fallen,
having the wherewithal to prove that we
can be trusted by standing up again,
so that Yahowah can remove us from the
Gan, this sheltered enclosure,
even from the planet Earth itself,
and allow some of us free reign throughout
the universe,
as well as access to Shamaym.
Therefore,
our journey isn't about seeking salvation,
but instead striving to be interesting and
trustworthy.
For this to occur,
God would have to give us the time
and the space to learn, to grow,
to experience both life and death,
to accomplish something worthwhile,
to fall and get up again,
to show that we are worthy of His
attention and that we can be trusted to
follow instructions.
So indeed,
there would eventually be those willing to
listen and engage accordingly,
and they would consume this fruit and
become family.
The initial exemplar of all of this was
actually Noach,
which is why he was lifted above the
fallen, the Nephilim,
the name means to fall,
achieving this distinction by listening to
Yahowah and then doing as God had asked,
even caring for the animals that God
enjoyed so much in the process.
And this would serve as a sign of
the Covenant made apparent by the seven
colors of the rainbow as they broke
through the stormy clouds.
You can see that menorah with the seven
colors of light of the rainbow spinning
over my left shoulder.
Even the eight souls above the ark,
they were symbolic of the eight epochs
of mankind's great adventure.
It would take six millennia for enough of
us to become interesting,
to justify opening the Gan,
this protective enclosure again.
But the situation would be different this
time,
as the seventh millennium is our
opportunity to get it right
for the Tree of Knowledge and the eight
individuals harvesting and sharing the
fruit around him,
those who were designated by the Shabuw'ah
harvest and the Taruw'ah gleaning,
and now acknowledged again on Sukah,
to properly equip the mortal remnant of
humanity for the greatest opportunity of
all.
And that is when beginning on the eighth
day of Sukah shelters,
those who have made a contribution,
proven that they can be trusted and who
have become interesting by learning,
can be emancipated,
free to explore the cosmos with our
Creator in a fashion that is mutually
beneficial because we're interesting,
because we can be trusted at long last.
Now, as a result,
now you know why my collaboration with
Yahowah would play out over thirty-two years
from two thousand and one to twenty thirty-three
three.
And then eight years representing this
transition through the eight days of Sukah
and why it would require, well,
so much effort,
one hundred thousand hours already.
Still counting,
I would have to demonstrate
the level of devotion required to prove
that men could be trusted to work as
intended, never giving up, falling,
but standing again,
making mistakes along the way,
learning from them,
growing as a result of them.
Coming back to the same material,
we have reviewed a score of times and
then learning so much more from it at
the right time that it's explosive
in our understanding of who we are,
where we are,
and what we need to do to get
from here to there.
You know, in the process, sure,
I'd be tripped up on occasion.
I'd make some mistakes.
All to show that I could dust myself
off,
correct the record and grow from there,
build upon that.
God wanted someone to affirm that by
listening to Him and engaging accordingly,
going to where His words lead,
that we are capable of learning what would
be required of us to be enriched and
empowered and able and emancipated by Him
to the extent that we become seven
dimensional explorers.
So yes,
the Choter would have roots then and now.
Branching out and bearing fruit,
he would compose a sign that God speaks
of as the nes,
and he would have a voice thanks to
the Spirit of this day.
All the while,
the partnership between the trees,
the love and respect shared between the
‘Ets Chayim and Da'ath,
it's going to endure forever.
Their branches intertwined.
While Noach would point the way and ‘Abraham
would be shown the way,
while Mosheh would record the way and the
prophets would explain the way,
it would be the fruit of Dowd and
Yada that would nourish those along the
way.
Yes.
The fruit of these trees is the Covenant
family.
And Yahowah decides who has access to them
and to it.
So how do you like those apples?
Collectively,
what I've just shared with you is the
pinnacle of human understanding pursuant
to God.
It's the reason for life.
It is the essence of our existence.
Do with this what you may.
For reasons only God knows,
I have been tasked with the
responsibility,
and I shouldn't actually say that,
because God's actually made it quite clear
as to what the reasons are.
But nevertheless,
I have been tasked with a responsibility I
did not request,
but I am not going to relinquish either,
of reintroducing the world to Yahowah's
name
while simultaneously restoring His son's
place in our lives.
And while that's good, it's also bad.
This job entails warning the world against
the mess that men have made.
By necessity,
I must tell the world that Jesus is
not God, that Allah is actually Satan,
that there is no Hashem,
that Marxists and MAGAs are both wrong,
and that the current POTUS
is actually demonic.
The earth is spiraling out of control such
that in the next eight years,
catastrophe and disaster,
destruction and death will be the
hallmarks of this time.
And standing up against it all,
weathering the storm,
is the deeply rooted,
strong-branched Tree of Knowledge of good
and bad.
I'm doing my job.
I'm producing fruit and I'm sharing it
with all interested parties.
Never has any man ever been as productive
pursuant to the things of God.
Nevertheless, my retirement is still,
well, one millennium and eight years away.
God doesn't shortchange anything now,
does He?
I've got another eight years here in this
world as we know it
and a thousand years in the garden to
equip as many people as possible to
explore the cosmos with Yahowah.
So while it seems a bit anticlimactic,
there is more to this story that God
wants you to know.
And so to rejoin His narrative where we
left off,
it is instructive to know that shama'
| listening was cradled in the qowl
| imperfect
and the third person, masculine plural.
Therefore,
the implications are that the ones who are
listening, who would listen to the ‘ets,
the trees representing Dowd and Yada,
are those of you who are listening now.
‘Ets and they are masculine and the
Yisra'elites and Gowym in the last
days are also masculine,
speaking of both groups of people.
The result would play out over time
because shama' was conveyed in the
imperfect,
and although nothing seemed to matter at
the moment, it would,
six thousand years thereafter.
So having addressed the qowl of Yahowah,
there is something more we can learn from
halak.
It was one of two successive verbs
modified by the rare use of the hithpa'el
stem.
This means that both Yahowah and His qowl
| voice, while regarded as one,
are unaffected by the wiles of man.
It was true of Yahowah having given up
on ‘Adam.
And it is true now of His voice
being incongruous with the religious and
the political.
And in the participle form,
God's movement through space and time is
having a vividly depicted effect such that
it leaves an indelible impression on our
minds.
This is particularly germane regarding the
narrative which took place within the
enclosed garden,
which is why the Ruwach | Spirit is presented
at this time.
The fact is this was Yahowah's last time
to move above the garden.
And He will not return to travel above
it again until a remnant of Yisra'el and
some very fortunate Gowym are afforded
that opportunity
by the Choter,
such that they can re-enter the garden and
experience Yahowah's presence,
particularly as it is represented through
the ‘Elyown, who is His beloved Son, Dowd.
Now, while it is subtle,
there are a couple of reasons that Yahowah
mentioned His Spirit in conjunction with
listening.
This pertains to His relative location in
time and the nature of the garden
yesterday and tomorrow.
Without the seven Ruwach of Yahowah,
the Choter would not have been able to
discern what millions have missed over the
millennia.
And without being slandered by those
falsely claiming that the Ruwach is a
spirit mom,
I would not have returned to this
narrative at this time.
Therefore,
I would not have noticed the great
discoveries that
have resulted from this current
investigation.
This is why I have expressed and have
recognized that Yahowah has noted with some
extraordinary prophecies adroitly
depicting what would be a fracture within
the family, such that it serves a purpose,
as did Chawah's flight of fancy and her
rebellion on this day.
We grow when we meet and rise above
challenges.
So.
Moving even deeper into the preceding
narrative.
Well,
the story depicts ‘Adam and Chawah together.
It's the man who was shown as Chawah
withdrawing from God because it was
scribed in the third person masculine
singular, as I mentioned previously.
Further,
since Chawah was modified by the hithpa'el
stem,
‘Adam is acknowledging that he is no longer
being assisted by Chawah or influenced by
God.
This suggests that he, ‘Adam,
decided to leave also on his own accord.
So the parting was mutual between God and
man.
It didn't work out.
All of this brings us right back to
the ‘ets | tree,
which remains masculine and singular
throughout.
This text does not say that ‘Adam was
hiding among the trees, plural.
He was ba tawak,
in the midst of the one tree in
the garden, in the Gan.
It was the one he coveted,
apparently trying to consume as much of it
as he could prior to being escorted out
of the garden.
Therefore,
while Chawah was the first to bite,
wanting to be a mother goddess in her
case,
‘Adam was anything but an innocent
bystander.
So we're also reminded of what this ‘ets
represents.
The tree's purpose was to ‘etsah,
provide counsel and advice through
diligence and effort on the entirety of
the plan,
ultimately framing the issues that God
wanted understood,
providing the right perspective to advise
people regarding them.
And the process man would develop a
backbone while overcoming challenges,
all to advocate for the proper response.
Sure,
it would be painful at times as he
would trip and fall to demonstrate the
resolve to rise again,
risking being shut out because his message
would be an open defiance of the schemes
proposed by those deemed authorized.
I think that's a good place for us
to stop this particular program.
We'll rejoin in Yahowah's next statement,
which is recorded in Bare'shiyth,
Genesis 3:9.
And it states that Yahowah, who is God,
called out,
issuing an invitation to read and recite
| qara'.
The verbal base of Miqra',
the seven invitations for us to be called
out of this world and to meet with
God.
And He's made this proclamation to the
man.
And He asked him, where are you?
He's asking you the same question.
Thank you for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
NOTE: Cleaned and proofread on December 11, 2025
The file is fully complete with all timestamps corrected.